Can navigate the terminal: ls, cd, whoami, pwd.
ls = list files
cd = go into folder
pwd = current directory
whoami = current user
I can do it.
Can create, delete files / folders: mkdir, rm, cp, mv, touch, nano.
mkdir = make a new directory
rm = remove files or directories
cp = copy files or directories
mv = moves files
touch = creates new empty file
nano = opens a file in a text editor
I can do it
Can use the following basic terminal commands: cat, wc, uniq, sort.
cat = display contents of a file
wc = counts lines and characters in a file
uniq = removes duplicated lines
sort = sort lines in a file alphabetically or numerically
I can do it










Can create a new repository in your prefered Git provider.
Step 1: Click new repository
Step 2: Choose settings and name
Step 3: click create
I can do it.
Can perform basic Git operations: clone, add, commit, push, pull.
git clone = clones a repository to a local machine
git add = moves a file to the staging area and marking it for the next commit
git commit = Saves changes with a message
git push = uploads local changes to the remote repository
Git pull = fetches and merges changes from a remote repository
I can do it:
Can list the main hardware components of a computer, their functions and the Von Neumann architecture.
CPU
RAM
 STORAGE
Von Neumann architecture:
Program + data stored in the same memory
CPU fetches then decodes and executes instructions


Can explain how computers work, starting from hardware all the way to software.
Hardware in a computer executes machine code binary.
The Operating System (OS) manages the hardware and allows the programs to run.
The software are coded so they can comply into the machine code
I can do it
Can talk about processes in operating systems.
It has its own memory space while it can run at the same time with others and its managed by the OS.
Can talk about different number representations such as:
* Binary
Its a base 2 and its used internally by computers

* Hexadecimal
Its a base 16 and its a compact representation of binary

* Decimal
Its a base 10 and its used for to represent data so humans can read it

I can do it
Can bring up real-world use cases for different number representations.
Binary =  machine level operations
Hexadecimal = addresses and colors
Decimals = everyday calculations
I can do it
Can explain different charsets like ASCII and Unicode and how they differ.
ASCII = foundational character encoding 128 characters. It allows computers to store text in 7 bit integers.


I can do it
Knows about different types of databases and their use cases.
SQL = relational database. Stores data and organizes in tables of rows and columns.
NoSQL =  non-relational database. Stores data in systems unstructured and where the data changes frequently.




Can setup a new MySQL database and connect to it.
CREATE DATABASE mydb;
I can do it


Can create DDL statements to create tables.
CREATE TABLE users (
id INT PRIMARY KEY,
name VARCHAR(100)
); 
I can do it
Can create DML (SELECT, INSERT) statements.
INSERT INTO users (id, name) VALUES (1, 'Mario');
SELECT * FROM users; 
I can do it
Can use WHERE clause to filter results.
SELECT * FROM users WHERE name = 'Mario';


Can define Primary Keys.
Cannot be null
Unique identifier for each row


Understands how Foreign Keys work.
Reference another table’s primary key
Used to link tables




In SELECT statements, can use (with moderate help):
* LIMIT, ORDER BY, GROUP BY


SELECT name FROM users
ORDER BY name
LIMIT 5;

* aggregate functions like COUNT, SUM, AVG, MIN, and MAX


SELECT COUNT(*), AVG(id) FROM users;

* pattern matching with LIKE and wildcards


SELECT * FROM users WHERE name LIKE 'D%';



* JOIN to combine data from multiple tables

SELECT users.name, orders.id
FROM users
JOIN orders ON users.id = orders.user_id;












Can create inner, left and right joins after looking up the syntax.
Inner join:
SELECT * FROM a INNER JOIN b ON a.id = b.id;


Left join:
SELECT * FROM a LEFT JOIN b ON a.id = b.id;


Right join:
SELECT * FROM a RIGHT JOIN b ON a.id = b.id;




Can create DDL statements to create tables with constraints: PRIMARY KEY, AUTO_INCREMENT, FOREIGN KEY, UNIQUE, NOT NULL.


CREATE TABLE users (
  id INT PRIMARY KEY AUTO_INCREMENT,
  email VARCHAR(100) UNIQUE NOT NULL
);


I can do it


Can create DML (UPDATE, DELETE) statements.


UPDATE users SET name = 'Mario' WHERE id = 1;
DELETE FROM users WHERE id = 1;


Can create a pull request.
Step 1: push branch
Step 2: click compare& pull request


I can do it
Understands different Git workflows such as GitHub Flow.
Create branch
Work → commit
Open pull request
Review → merge




Can solve a merge conflict.


git add .
git commit
I can do it


Can write YAML.


name: John Doe
age: 25
student: true








Understands what GitHub Actions are and can breakdown workflows into runners, jobs, and steps.


Runner is machine executing workflow
A job is a group of steps
A step is an individual task


Can give use cases for GitHub Actions.
CI/CD pipelines
Testing code automatically
Deployment
I can do it




Understands different cloud service models: IaaS, PaaS, SaaS.
IaaS = infrastructure (VMs)
PaaS = platform (deploy apps)
SaaS = ready-to-use software


Can deploy a web application to Azure App Service.


Microsoft Azure:

Create App Service
Connect repo
Deploy




Understands the flow from pushing, GitHub Actions running, building the project and deployment to Azure.
   1. Code push
   2. GitHub Actions runs 
   3. It builds 
   4. Deploys to Azure 


Adding a database to a Spring Project.
   1. Add dependency
   2. Configure datasource
   3. Connect via JDBC


Setting up a database in Azure.
   1. Create Azure SQL / MySQL
   2. Configure access
   3. Connect via connection string


Can set up a database in Azure and connect it to an Azure App Service project with a guide.
I can do it


Is able to go through scenarios that can cause concurrency problems in databases.
Issues that occur when multiple transactions access the same data at the same time.
Can explain what ACID is and why it solves concurrency problems for databases.
ACID is a set of properties (Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, Durability) that ensure reliable and safe database transactions.




Is aware of the possibility to define transactions in SQL, JDBC and atomic structures.
Transactions in SQL and JDBC is a way to group multiple database operations so they either all succeed or all fail together. 
Atomic structures are operations or components that are executed completely or not at all without interruption and its important for thread safety.